# portfolio-

In the scatterplot I coded, I was mainly interested in observing differences in energy, valence, as well as mode of songs which I would categorize as within the sad girl genre, and songs outside of the genre through which I could compare and accurately define characteristics of sad girl music. I made two separate playlists for the two categories - the "not sad girl music" encompassed music which is by artists within the sad girl genre (ie. Taylor Swift, Lorde, fka twigs), but whose albums such as "1989" - a pop masterpiece,  "Solar Power" - Lorde's healing mature era and "Caprisongs", an R&B dance mixtape, are definitely outside of the genre through their high-energy, positive narrative. This was done with the purpose of uncovering the main differences that make sad girl music its own genre.  
In comparing the two, I hypothesized that sad girl music would have lower energy and valence, given that the lyrics are predominantly negative and despite some energetic features, usually artists choose a breathy sad sound to their instrumentals. The scatterplot indeed revealed this overall assumption - but it is important to note that there are exceptions in both categories. Additionally, I think it's interesting how the sad girl genre has a more diverse range of modes, and also less loudness as compared to the not sad girl section. 







In my musical corpus, I seek to answer the question of what is **"sad girl music"**, what does it mean to be a **"sad girl"** singer, songwriter and producer? In aiming to answer such questions, I've amassed a musical corpus which reflects the most popular trends and artists within the sad girl genre, such as **Taylor Swift**'s pandemic sister albums *"folklore"* and *"evermore"*, as well as unique songwriters which have most recently gained popularity, such as **Phoebe Bridgers** with her *"Stranger in the alps"* and *"Punisher"* albums. Additionally, I've added well-known pillars of the genre, such as **Lana del Rey** and **Mitski**, as well as artists appreciated for their longevity and whose older songs have remained iconic - most specifically, **Fiona Apple**. Additionally, I aim to uncover what it means for an artist known for her **"sad girl music"** to diverge from said patterns and apperently go through her "healing era" - this can be observed in the commercial trends of artists such as **Lorde** and **fka twigs**, both included in the corpus. Finally, newcomers and new sounds and trends are also included in the corpus, through **Lizzy McAlpine, Gracie Abrams** and **Ethel Cain**, whose comparisons will help us understand the new and up and coming "sad girl" music, and how much it reflects the core ideas already installed by more popular artists. 

I expect to see both differences and similiarities between the pillars of the genre, the older songs, and the newer artists, who are redifining the constraints of "sad girl music". Also, looking at songwriting trends, rhytmic patterns, and commercial success, we can attempt to understand the public's attraction to such artists, and what the reaction is when they diverge from the "sad girl music" pattern. Furthermore, this corpus is generally limited in that it does not include all genre-divergences from the regular indie-pop basis of "sad girl music", however artists such as **fka twigs** includes electronic and r&b influences, and **Ethel Cain** invokes an americana folk sound. I'm eager to see how these genre influences affect commercial and rhytmic patterns, and if they lead to exclusion within the "sad girl" genre. 

Tracks that I am eager to especially analyze are **Taylor Swift's** *"All too well ( 10 minute version)"* and its *"Sad Girl Autumn"* remix version, as pillars an d magnum opus of the "sad girl music" genre, as well as comparisons between **Lorde** *"Melodrama"* -era songs and her *"Solar Power"* era songs. Furthermore, by grouping together tracks such as **Mitski's** *"Brand New City"*, **Fiona Apple's** *"I want you to love me"*, **Ethel Cain's** *"Ptolomeea"* and **fka twigs'** *"cellophane"*, I can analyze the aforementioned genre influences, as well as the more guturall, desperate, passionate and loud version of the "sad girl".
